
RemoteBox
================================================================

http://knobgoblin.org.uk/

http://knobgoblin.org.uk/downloads.cgi


RemoteBox Version       Required VirtualBox Version
------------------      ----------------------------
        v2.0                    v5.0.x
    v1.6 - v1.9                 v4.3.x
    v1.4 - v1.5                 v4.2.x
    v1.0 - v1.3                 v4.1.x
    v0.6 - v0.9                 v4.0.x
    v0.1 - v0.5                 v3.2.x
        NONE            v3.1.x and earlier editions


RemoteBox Version         Minimum GTK2 Version
------------------      ----------------------------
    v1.6 and newer              v2.24
    v1.2 - v1.5                 v2.22
    v0.1 - v1.1                 v2.16


Old versions of RemoteBox are downloadable from the website, 
but are no longer supported or maintained.



RemoteBox - Manage VirtualBox on Servers
================================================================

What is RemoteBox?

RemoteBox is a VirtualBox client. In essence, you can remotely administer (i.e., 
over the network) an installation of VirtualBox on a server, including its 
guests, and interact with them as if they were running locally.  VirtualBox is 
installed on 'the server' machine and RemoteBox runs on 'the client' machine. 
RemoteBox provides a complete GTK graphical interface with a look and feel very 
similar to that of VirtualBox's native GUI.  If you're familiar with other 
virtualization software, such as VMWare ESX, then think of RemoteBox as the 
"poor man's" VI client.

Why is this useful?

VirtualBox is intended to be used as a desktop virtualization solution.  That 
is, you install it on a machine and use VirtualBox locally.  This means that the 
guests on the local machine will consume resources, taking them away from other 
tasks.  Additionally, the guests will not be available to other machines or will 
be unavailable if the local machine is shut down.  

RemoteBox changes this by allowing you to run the guests on another machine 
(i.e., the server) but still interact with them as if they were installed 
locally.  This frees up resources on your local machine, allows you to interact 
with the same guests from multiple machines (e.g., a desktop and a laptop), and 
the guests can continue to run even when the client machine is shut down. 

The guests can also take advantage of the additonal CPU, memory, and storage 
that servers tend to have.  As VirtualBox and RemoteBox are both cross-platform, 
it allows you to use different operating systems for the client and server.  For 
example, you may prefer to use VirtualBox on a Linux server, but wish to 
interact with the guests from a Mac OS X client machine.

How does it work?

VirtualBox includes a special web service which exposes its API over the network 
using a protocol called SOAP. RemoteBox also speaks SOAP and communicates with 
VirtualBox to perform the various tasks such as creating or powering on guests, 
etc.  When guests are 'powered on', they are started up in a mode called 
headless. This essentially means the guest's display is 'hidden' but is 
accessible using the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). RemoteBox uses an RDP client 
to show the display of a guest, locally on the client machine and is completely 
interactive.

What does RemoteBox run on?

The RemoteBox client is known to run on Linux, Solaris, Mac OS X, and various 
modern flavors of BSD.  VirtualBox offically runs on Linux, Solaris, Mac OS X, 
and Windows as well as 'unofficially' on FreeBSD.  The client and server 
machines do not need to be running the same operating system.  For example, you 
may have VirtualBox installed on a Linux server but interfact with the guests 
from a Mac OS X client. 


